#
# This file is autogenerated by pip-compile with python 3.10
# To update, run:
#
#    pip-compile
#
--extra-index-url https://alpine-wheels.github.io/index

adal>=1.2.7
    # via
    #   cartography
    #   msrestazure
applicationinsights>=0.11.10
    # via azure-cli-telemetry
argcomplete>=1.12.3
    # via
    #   azure-cli-core
    #   knack
azure-cli-core>=2.37.0
    # via cartography
azure-cli-telemetry>=1.0.6
    # via azure-cli-core
azure-common>=1.1.28
    # via
    #   azure-mgmt-compute
    #   azure-mgmt-cosmosdb
    #   azure-mgmt-resource
    #   azure-mgmt-sql
    #   azure-mgmt-storage
azure-core>=1.24.0
    # via
    #   azure-identity
    #   azure-mgmt-core
azure-identity>=1.10.0
    # via cartography
azure-mgmt-compute>=27.0.0
    # via cartography
azure-mgmt-core>=1.3.0
    # via
    #   azure-cli-core
    #   azure-mgmt-compute
    #   azure-mgmt-cosmosdb
    #   azure-mgmt-resource
    #   azure-mgmt-sql
    #   azure-mgmt-storage
azure-mgmt-cosmosdb>=6.4.0
    # via cartography
azure-mgmt-resource>=21.1.0
    # via cartography
azure-mgmt-sql>=1.0.0
    # via cartography
azure-mgmt-storage>=20.0.0
    # via cartography
bcrypt>=3.2.2
    # via paramiko
boto3>=1.23.8
    # via cartography
botocore>=1.26.8
    # via
    #   boto3
    #   cartography
    #   s3transfer
cachetools>=5.1.0
    # via google-auth
cartography>=0.93.0
    # via -r requirements.in
certifi>=2022.5.18.1
    # via
    #   kubernetes
    #   msrest
    #   requests
cffi>=1.15.0
    # via
    #   bcrypt
    #   cryptography
    #   pynacl
charset-normalizer>=2.0.12
    # via requests
crowdstrike-falconpy>=1.1.2
    # via cartography
cryptography>=3.3.2
    # via
    #   adal
    #   azure-cli-core
    #   azure-identity
    #   cartography
    #   msal
    #   paramiko
    #   pyjwt
    #   pyopenssl
dnspython>=2.2.1
    # via cartography
google-api-core>=2.8.0
    # via google-api-python-client
google-api-python-client>=2.49.0
    # via cartography
google-auth>=2.6.6
    # via
    #   google-api-core
    #   google-api-python-client
    #   google-auth-httplib2
    #   kubernetes
google-auth-httplib2>=0.1.0
    # via google-api-python-client
googleapis-common-protos>=1.56.1
    # via google-api-core
httplib2>=0.20.4
    # via
    #   google-api-python-client
    #   google-auth-httplib2
    #   oauth2client
humanfriendly>=10.0
    # via azure-cli-core
idna>=3.3
    # via requests
isodate>=0.6.1
    # via msrest
jmespath>=1.0.0
    # via
    #   azure-cli-core
    #   boto3
    #   botocore
    #   knack
jsonpickle>=2.2.0
    # via python-digitalocean
knack>=0.9.0
    # via azure-cli-core
kubernetes>=21.7.0
    # via cartography
marshmallow>=3.15.0
    # via cartography
msal>=1.18.0b1
    # via
    #   azure-cli-core
    #   azure-identity
    #   msal-extensions
msal-extensions>=1.0.0
    # via
    #   azure-cli-core
    #   azure-identity
msrest>=0.6.21
    # via
    #   azure-mgmt-compute
    #   azure-mgmt-cosmosdb
    #   azure-mgmt-resource
    #   azure-mgmt-sql
    #   azure-mgmt-storage
    #   msrestazure
msrestazure>=0.6.4
    # via
    #   azure-cli-core
    #   cartography
neo4j>=1.7.6
    # via cartography
neobolt>=1.7.17
    # via
    #   cartography
    #   neo4j
neotime>=1.7.4
    # via neo4j
oauth2client>=4.1.3
    # via cartography
oauthlib>=3.2.0
    # via requests-oauthlib
okta>=0.0.4
    # via cartography
packaging>=21.3
    # via
    #   azure-cli-core
    #   cartography
    #   marshmallow
paramiko>=2.11.0
    # via azure-cli-core
pdpyras>=4.5.0
    # via cartography
pkginfo>=1.8.2
    # via azure-cli-core
policyuniverse>=1.5.0.20220523
    # via cartography
portalocker>=1.7.1
    # via
    #   azure-cli-telemetry
    #   msal-extensions
protobuf>=3.20.1
    # via
    #   google-api-core
    #   googleapis-common-protos
psutil>=5.9.1
    # via azure-cli-core
pyasn1>=0.4.8
    # via
    #   oauth2client
    #   pyasn1-modules
    #   rsa
pyasn1-modules>=0.2.8
    # via
    #   google-auth
    #   oauth2client
pycparser>=2.21
    # via cffi
pygments>=2.12.0
    # via knack
pyjwt[crypto]>=2.4.0
    # via
    #   adal
    #   azure-cli-core
    #   msal
pynacl>=1.5.0
    # via paramiko
pyopenssl>=20.0.1
    # via azure-cli-core
pyparsing>=3.0.9
    # via
    #   httplib2
    #   packaging
pysocks>=1.7.1
    # via requests
python-dateutil>=2.8.2
    # via
    #   adal
    #   botocore
    #   kubernetes
    #   okta
python-digitalocean>=1.17.0
    # via cartography
pytz>=2022.1
    # via neotime
pyyaml>=6.0
    # via
    #   cartography
    #   knack
    #   kubernetes
requests[socks]>=2.27.1
    # via
    #   adal
    #   azure-cli-core
    #   azure-core
    #   cartography
    #   crowdstrike-falconpy
    #   google-api-core
    #   kubernetes
    #   msal
    #   msrest
    #   okta
    #   pdpyras
    #   python-digitalocean
    #   requests-oauthlib
requests-oauthlib>=1.3.1
    # via
    #   kubernetes
    #   msrest
rsa>=4.8
    # via
    #   google-auth
    #   oauth2client
s3transfer>=0.5.2
    # via boto3
six>=1.16.0
    # via
    #   azure-core
    #   azure-identity
    #   cryptography
    #   google-auth
    #   google-auth-httplib2
    #   isodate
    #   kubernetes
    #   msrestazure
    #   neotime
    #   oauth2client
    #   okta
    #   paramiko
    #   pyopenssl
    #   python-dateutil
statsd>=3.3.0
    # via cartography
tabulate>=0.8.9
    # via knack
typing-extensions>=4.2.0
    # via azure-core
uritemplate>=4.1.1
    # via google-api-python-client
urllib3>=1.26.9
    # via
    #   botocore
    #   crowdstrike-falconpy
    #   kubernetes
    #   pdpyras
    #   requests
websocket-client>=1.3.2
    # via kubernetes

# The following packages are considered to be unsafe in a requirements file:
# setuptools