# Build a database migration tool

## Introduction

We are currently applying migrations every time a component that aggregates the
producer output or enriches the output in some way. This is a major issue
because it could easily lead to a lot of issues due to the fact that components
are starting to fight each other to apply migrations. It's
also a flaky way of managing migrations, since it doesn't allow us to easily
expand it and add different migrations for different components. We need a more
explicit way of managing migrations that can be run by an administrator with CLI
 tools but can also be packaged and executed during initial setup or upgrade of
 the system. The tool must support running arbitrary migrations on the
same database without issues.

## Design

A new subcommand will be added to the `draconctl` command called `migrations`
and it will offer the three following choices:

1. `inspect`: check the state of the database versus the expected state
2. `apply`: apply all the migrations to the database if any are missing
3. `revert`: revert migrations to the database

All the commands need to be either executed locally if the administrator has
direct access to the database or they should be executed as a job in the
Kubernetes cluster. All the commands will require similar arguments:

1. the URL of the database
2. the path to the migrations
3. a flag signifying if the job is supposed to run locally or on the K8s
   cluster as a job

The path to the migrations could be either a folder with migration scripts or it
could be a directory with multiple other folders containing the migration
scripts.

For each directory containing migration scripts, the CLI will apply the
migrations and will use the directory name as the name of the table where it
will keep track of the migrations. So, assume the following directory structure:

```bash
/etc/dracon/migrations/
                        enrichments/
                                    001_init.up.sql
                                    002_varchar_to_text.up.sql
                                    003_add_cve_column.up.sql
                        experimental_component/
                                    001_init.up.sql
                                    002_add_new_column.up.sql
```

In this case, the CLI will expect to receive the positional argument
`/etc/dracon/migrations/` or `/etc/dracon/migrations` and will scan it to find
the subdirectories. Since each subdirectory has a number of SQL scripts, they
will be applied using two tables to track their state:

1. enrichments
2. experimental_component

It goes without saying, that whoever is creating the migrations, they need to
ensure that there are no weird interactions between them.

At the time of this writing we don't have a good way of packaging migrations
with components, so in order for them to be applied, they will need to be
included in the `draconctl` container. This container image is expected to be
accessible by the Kubernetes cluster and the kube context must be correctly
configured.

Outside of the Kubernetes cluster the authentication will be based on the user's
kubeconfig while inside the cluster, a special flag called `--in-cluster` will
be passed to notify the agent that it should use the standard way of K8s account
 tokens to authenticate with the K8s API.

The reason the process in the Job pod will need to authenticate with the K8s API
is that it will try to acquire a lease called `migration-job-lock` to make sure
that there is nobody else trying to apply migrations at the same time. Once the
lease is acquired, the migrations will be applied/reverted. The CLI that
deployed the job on the cluster is expected to poll the pod for results. If one
pod fails, it should keep polling the logs of the rest of the pods that will be
spawned until one succeeds or the command times out. By default the command will
 have a timeout of 120s.
