# Replace please with Makefile

## Introduction

We have been using `please` as our build system for some time now, but we have
found that it has various shortcomings. We need to move to something simpler
that can be used by everyone. That tool will be `Makefile`.

## Description

Up until now, we have been using `please` to build our binaries and manifests.
However, using `please` is becoming untenable because it brings a lot of baggage
but it's not providing us with some unique functionality that can't be
replicated with a simple Makefile target.

We have been having issues lately because the latest version of `please` (>=v17)
has introduced a different API for plugins that replaces `pleasings`. Which is a
serious issue because we rely heavily on pleasings for our functionality and we
need to refactor a big portion of our build definitions so that we can move to a
newer version of `please`. Since we will be refactoring quite a few things, the
question that we need to ask ourselves is: is it worth it to stick with `please`
?

As mentioned previously, `please` is not offering us some unique feature that no
other build system has. Also, it's fairly verbose, since everything needs to be
explicitly defined using Skylark. Finally, there is no such thing as unit tests
for all the Skylark scripts that are being used everywhere.

Using `please` means that prospective users of the project have a very high
barrier to entry, which is exactly what any open source project that wishes to
be widely used wants to avoid. Users would need to learn the quirks of Tekton
and Dracon **AND** `please`. Having to learn a bunch of new tools before being
able to deploy anything is bound to discourage users. We have also had bad
feedback from users who were unable to follow our installation guide, because
`please` through weird errors and we couldn't provide them with a
straightforward answer about how to overcome them. Since `please` is not used
outside ThoughtMachine, it is difficult to find good documentation or a
community of users that have an in-depth knowledge of the system.

Makefile solves the issues outlined above:

1. It is widely available
2. Has a lot of documentation
3. It is a simple scripting DSL resembling BASH
4. It can do everything that `please` does
5. The majority of engineers out there have already at least some idea of how
   Makefile works
6. When built correctly, it's not very verbose and it can be debugged easily

Migration to using `Makefile` building the following functionality:

1. Remove all `BUILD` files from the repository
2. Build all component container images using `make` targets
3. Introduce `make` targets for running linters, formaters and tests
4. Automate deployment of dev environment on K8s
5. Refactor our Github actions to execute `make` targets
6. Build all tools and binaries using `make`
7. Use go to vendor our dependencies
8. Document new workflows using `make`

## Backwards compatibility

Migrating to Makefile should not change anything, we should produce the exact
same binaries, containers and manifests.
